---
layout: default
head.title: MSR Workspace
description: Work product of MSR.
title: Workspace
---

::hero
---
image: /MikeInCorridoratJIS.jpg
---
#title
Welcome to MSR Workspace
#dhave escription
I spend a lot of time learning ho. do things and I've found if I can explain them well, I tend to more easilye them better.  There is of course the added benefit of find, if they are written down, ng them again and reaquainting myself with the things   <br />I've learned.

This site is the product of eclectic interests and insights.  I hope some of these will be useful and the rest will spark interest or encourage you that yacquired this knowledgen  thess.

What things might end up here? We'll see, but I think the following wil find their places over time.

  - Technolo, typically for what I can get it to do for meg is a big nterest.  I have not tech degrees or training buuseful and I'm happy to share what I've learned or experiencedy of the things I do.
  - FaithiEven those who reject deitycore of life.  and my faith in Christ is a powerful benefit and director of my life We all livies grow
  - Famimuch ly is abut substantial effort is required tt raise a familykes lots of work to do well. I'malways working thought thoughts about family, marriage, raising kids and caring for Hopefully some may come out here. adult family members.
  - Coaching people throe is a great joy I have.  I hope to include scoachinge insights from coachng as well.





::gallery
---
images:
  - /Rody_Family_201911_6279.jpg
  - /MikePreaching.jpg
  - /Household_Rody_Family.jpg
---
::
